{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9060\viewh14360\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 RULES FOR IF STATEMENTS\
\
An if statement must have an else\
if the else should never run because it doesn\'92t make sense, you must use a die function [dead(why)] in the else that prints out an error message and dies [exit(0)] for example. This will find many errors!\
Never nest if statements more than two deep. Always try to do them one deep.\
Treat if statements like paragraphs, where each if-elif-else grouping is like a set of sentences. put blank lines before and after them. \
Your booleans tests should be simple. If they are complex, move their calculations to variables earlier in your function and use a good name for the variable.\
\
RULES FOR LOOPS\
Use a while-loop only to lop forever; and that means, probably never! this only applies to python, other languages are different\
use a for-loop for all other kinds of looping. especially if there is a fixed or limited number of things to loop over.\
\
TIPS FOR DEBUGGING\
do not use a debugger - equivalent of a body scan on a sick person. not useful and specific.\
the best way to debug a program is to use print to print out the values of the variables at points in the program to see where they go wrong.\
Make sure parts of your programs work as you work on them. Do not write massive files of code before you try to run them. \
\
\
\
GAME DESIGN\
\
Adventure game\
\
Get to Heaven\
Getting to Heaven involves several levels\
You progress through each level and have to win each level to go on to the next level\
The game levels are: San Francisco, Los Angeles and Brooklyn\
The game play consists of transportation to a location and a task to be performed\
You accrue points? You have to have > n points to proceed?\
To start the game, you get on a plane and go for a ride. You go to SF, LA and Brooklyn.\
If you win Brooklyn you win the game.\
At the beginning of the game, \
	You start with a budget of 200\
If you choose the right choice you get to progress\
If you run out of money you lose\
San Francisco\
	Your job is to deliver a package to the lady in the wedding dress\
	You land at SFO and have to decide how to get to downtown\
	If you choose taxi or uber or lyft it costs you a lot of money but you make it to the next step\
	If you choose bart you make it to the next step\
	If you do anything else you die\
	Once downtown, you have to decided whether to go to the Embarcadero or to the Ferry building\
	You have to look around for the lady.\
	The lady is at the Ferry Building\
	Once you find the lady you go to the next city\
Los Angeles\
	You are on your way to LA. You mission is find the stars and the sun.\
	You get off a plane in LAX\
	You have to rent a car or be picked up by a friend\
	If you try for a taxi or uber you pay a lot\
	If you try metro you die\
	You have to choose where to go. The only choices are beach, Hollywood, and Griffith Park\
	The start and the sun are at Griffith Park Observatory.\
	The beach and Hollywood don\'92t have much for you\
	You have to get back in your car and choose another destination\
	Once you find the stars and sun you win.\
	\
Brooklyn\
	You get on a plane and land at La Guardia\
	Your mission is to find the germans in williamsburg\
	You have to catch a cab to get there\
	If you do the subway you are ok\
	If you call uber you die\
	Once in williamsburg, your choices are to go to the park or the water or downtown\
	The germans are at Radegast downtown}